This crash occurred on a straight one-way asphalt street with an uphill grade of 3% and a posted speed limit was 32 Kmph (20 MPH.) Each side of the street was lined with parked cars. It was late evening on a weeknight and there were no adverse weather conditions. The street was not lighted. Vehicle 1, a 1989 Jeep Wagoneer, was traveling East with the driver and one passenger inside. V2, an unoccupied 2003 Chevrolet Tahoe, was legally parked at the left road edge. As V2 entered the roadway, the left front of Vehicle 1 contacted the right side of V2. The Jeep pushed the Tahoe 1.7m east before both vehicles came to rest. Vehicle 1 was driven by a 25-year-old male. The driver and front right passenger were transported to a medical facility for treatment. The driver stated that he was looking at his wife as he was speaking to her. He stated that he was distracted and hit the other vehicle. The driver indicated that, he had recently had his brakes worked on and they weren't quite right. While he was not comfortable with the condition of his vehicle's brakes, he was uncertain if this contributed to the crash. The Critical Precrash Event for Vehicle 1 occurred when the vehicle traveled left, over the left edge of the travel lane and into the parking lane. The Critical Reason for the Precrash Event was an internal distraction.
This crash occurred on a two-lane asphalt roadway. It was clear, dry weekend morning. The speed limit was 48 kmph (30mph) and there was a 2.8% uphill grade. Vehicle 1 was a 2004 Nissan Frontier driven by an 18 year-old female. Vehicle 1 was traveling east along a slight left curve that had a radius of 1125m. Vehicle 2 was an unoccupied 2005 Ford Crown Victoria that was legally parked at the right (south) curb heading east. The front of Vehicle 1 contacted the back of Vehicle 2. Both vehicles traveled 25m east before coming to rest at the right curb. The Critical Precrash Event for Vehicle 1 was this vehicle traveling over the lane line on the right side of travel lane. The Critical Reason for the Critical Precrash Event was an internal distraction. The driver of Vehicle 1 told police that she was distracted by an insect inside the vehicle.
The crash occurred on a two-way, two-lane straight, level, bituminous residential street with a speed limit of 40 kmph (25 mph). Conditions at the time of the weeknight crash were cloudy, dark, and dry. V1, a 2001 Kia Sephia, driven by a 28 year-old female, was southbound on the road when it left the travel lane and the front of V1 struck the back of a legally parked, unoccupied vehicle on the right side of the road. V1 pushed the parked vehicle 25 meters where V1 came to rest against it. Both vehicles were towed from the scene due to damage. The driver of v1 was transported to the Police Department to undergo a Breathalyzer, where she recorded a Blood Alcohol level of .21. The Critical Precrash Event coded to v1 was 'this vehicle traveling over the lane line on the right side of travel lane.' The Critical Reason for the Critical Event coded was 'internal distraction.' The driver stated during the interview that she heard something fall and looked down and reached with her right hand to get it, and ran into the parked car. A contributing factor was coded for alcohol consumption. The driver stated that she had been drinking at home two miles away and was driving to the store when she had the crash.
This crash occurred at an unknown time early in the morning, sometime after midnight. The driver was unable to give a time, and the time the crash was reported was the time a passerby saw the vehicle in the light of dawn. Vehicle one (V1) was a 1984 white 4 door Oldsmobile Cutlass that struck the side of a building at a high rate of speed. V1 came from a one-lane roadway inside of a trailer court. This vehicle crossed a 2 lane bituminous roadway before entering a parking lot and crashing into the side of a building. The vehicle was towed and the driver was transported and admitted for a dislocated right hip. The driver is a 53-year-old male. Medical records states the driver admitted to smoking methamphetamine's as well as drinking alcohol earlier. Tests were positive for amphetamines and negative for alcohol. The driver stated he got into his vehicle to go see his brother about some problem. The driver had known about an accelerator problem before the crash. The vehicle would not remain running unless the driver held their foot on the gas and then putting the vehicle into gear. At the time of the crash the driver did just this, but according to the driver the accelerator stuck at full throttle. The driver, due to his altered conscious state, failed to control the vehicle as it sped down the street into the side of the building. The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle loss of control due to - non-disabling vehicle problem. The critical reason was coded as a vehicle related factor: other vehicle failure (specified as: accelerator stuck).
This crash occurred on a straight one-way asphalt street with an uphill grade of 3% and a posted speed limit was 32 Kmph (20 MPH.) Each side of the street was lined with parked cars. It was late evening on a weeknight and there were no adverse weather conditions. The street was not lighted. Vehicle 1, a 1989 Jeep Wagoneer, was traveling East with the driver and one passenger inside. Vehicle 1 drifted to the left and the left front of the vehicle contacted an unoccupied 2003 Chevrolet Tahoe (Vehicle 2) that was legally parked at the left road edge. The Jeep pushed the Tahoe 1.7m east before both vehicles came to rest. Vehicle 1 was driven by a 25-year-old male. The driver and front right passenger were transported to a medical facility for treatment. The driver stated that he was looking at his wife as he was speaking to her. He stated that he was distracted and hit the other vehicle. The driver indicated that, he had recently had his brakes worked on and they weren't quite right. While he was not comfortable with the condition of his vehicle's brakes, he was uncertain if this contributed to the crash. The Critical Precrash Event for Vehicle 1 occurred when the vehicle traveled left, over the left edge of the travel lane and into the parking lane. The Critical Reason for the Precrash Event was an internal distraction.
The crash occurred on a level two lane undivided roadway with a posted speed limit of 30 MPH (48 KPH). It was raining, the roadway was wet and it was dark, but lighted at the time of this weekday evening crash. Vehicle #1, a 1990 Buick Century, was traveling east on a one-way street with a posted speed limit of 25 MPH (40 KPH) going the wrong way. Vehicle #1 had failed to comply with police and attempted to elude them. Vehicle #1 approached a “T” intersection with no controls for this direction. Vehicle #1 entered the intersection, crossed both north and southbound lanes and struck a parked vehicle in the left side with its front. Vehicle #1 came to rest facing east in the northbound lane. The parked vehicle, a 1994 Chrysler LHS, which was legally parked in a designated parking lane, was rotated counterclockwise and struck the curb with its right side. The parked vehicle continued to rotate, struck a light pole with its right side and came to rest facing in a northwesterly direction. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. The Buick Century (Vehicle #1) was driven by an unbelted 47 year-old male, who was transported, treated and released at a local hospital for minor injuries. He stated that he was traveling down a one way street and hit a parked car. He stated that he was attempting to turn right at the intersection and braked in an attempt to avoid the crash. He stated he did not wear corrective lenses. No additional information was obtained due to driver being incarcerated. The Chrysler LHS was occupied by an unbelted 39-year-old male, who was transported, treated and released at a local hospital. This person could not be located and no further information was obtained. The Critical Precrash Event for Vehicle #1 was this vehicle traveling, end departure. The Critical Reason for the Critical Precrash Event was too fast for conditions. This was chosen because the driver was eluding police, going down a one-way street the wrong way at a high rate of speed and it was raining. Police considered alcohol to be a factor and issued a citation.
This crash occurred on an intersection between two lane undivided roadways. The Precrash roadway of Vehicle #1 had a elevation of +5.7% and the Precrash roadway of Vehicle #2 had an elevation of + 18.8% and posted speed limits of 48KMPH (30MPH). The weather was clear and the roadway was dry. This crash occurred on a weekday evening. Vehicle #1 a 1998 Mercury Sable was traveling in a westerly direction on the two lane undivided roadway crossing an intersection and intending to go straight. Vehicle #2 a 1995 Nissan Altima was traveling northwest intending to cross the intersection and go in a northern direction. Vehicle #2 impacted the front left of Vehicle #1 with its front left. Vehicle #1 came to rest facing southwest partially off the roadway with its front. Vehicle #2 came to rest on the roadway facing north after having gone through the intersection. The Mercury Sable was driven by belted 28 year old female who was transported to an area hospital, treated and released. She stated that the event happened so quickly she did not have time to react. She did, however, cover her face with her hands prior to impact. The Critical Precrash Event coded to Vehicle #1 was Other Vehicle Encroachment From Crossing street, Across Path. The Critical Reason for the Critical Precrash Event was not coded to this vehicle. The driver of Vehicle #1 was not thought to have contributed to the crash. There is no evidence of any illegal drug use, however the driver stated she takes several types of antihistamines for allergies. The 1995 Nissan Altima (Vehicle #2) was driven by a belted 30 year old male who stated he was not injured. He stated that Vehicle #1 did not stop at the intersection and that he has stopped for 2 seconds before continuing through the intersection. This driver was ticketed by police for driving with a suspended registration. The Critical Precrash Event coded to this Vehicle was This Vehicle Traveling Crossing over (passing through) an intersection. The Critical Reason for the Critical Precrash Event was coded as a Driver Related Factor, Inadequate surveillance. This Critical Reason was coded due to the driver stating he had driven on this roadway many times and knew there were no stop signs. It should be noted at this time that there were no stops signs or traffic control signals on either road of this intersection. It should further be noted that a utility pole situated extremely close to the roadway, on Driver #2's right side, with a large bright green sign may have partially blocked this drivers sight line for approaching traffic. It should also be noted that several parked vehicles to the right of this driver might also have limited his sight line. The police did not consider illegal drugs to be involved and ordered no tests for either driver.
This crash occurred on a weekday afternoon in an intersection between two, two lane undivided, bituminous roadways. The East/West roadway was dry and straight with a posted speed limit of 89 kmph (55 mph) and a -2 % grade. This roadway had a black on yellow intersection warning with flashing yellow beacon with a suggested speed of 72 kmph (45 mph) prior to the intersection. The North/South roadway was a dry, level roadway with a posted speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph) and was controlled by a stop sign. There was also a flashing signal, yellow for the main roadway and red for the cross street. V1, a 1993 Chevrolet Prizm, was stopped in the northbound lane for the stop sign and flashing red beacon. V2, a 2001 Jeep Wrangler, was westbound approaching the same intersection. V1 entered the intersection and was struck in the right side by the front of V2. V1 rotated counterclockwise and the right side struck the left side of V2. V2 continued forward a short distance, struck a light pole with its front and came to rest facing west. V1 continued off the right side of the roadway and swiped an 80 cm diameter tree with its right side. V1 than struck a 120 cm diameter tree with its front and came to final rest facing west. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. V1 was driven by a belted 20year-old female who was transported, treated and released for minor injuries. The driver could not be located or contacted for additional information. She did state to the police that she did not see V2 coming when she proceeded into the intersection. The Critical Precrash Event for Vehicle 1 was coded as this vehicle traveling, crossing over (passing through) intersection. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was coded as a recognition error, inadequate surveillance, looked but did not see. This was chosen because the driver stated that she did not see V2 coming when she began to enter the intersection. V2 was driven by a belted 19-year-old male who was in good health and on his way to the dentist. The driver stated that he was traveling between 66-80kmph (41-50mph) prior to the crash. He also stated that his sight line to the other vehicle was clear, that she went through the stop sign and he attempted to avoid the collision by braking and steering right but it was too late. The driver was uninjured but his passenger was transported to a treatment facility with non-incapacitating injuries. The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was coded as other vehicle encroachment from crossing street, across path. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle. There were no known associated factors coded to this driver and he was not thought to have contributed to the crash.
This crash occurred on a two lane undivided straight roadway with no grade and a posted speed limit of 89 KMPH (55 MPH). The weather was clear and the roadway was dry. This crash occurred on late morning on a weekday. Vehicle #1,2000 Ford Expedition was traveling south on the two lane undivided roadway when it impacted the rear of Vehicle #2, a 2004 Dodge Ram 1500, with its front. Vehicle # 1 came to rest on the southbound shoulder. Vehicle #2 came to rest in a north side parking lot. Vehicle #2 had been stopped in the northbound traveling lane waitng for traffic to pass and intending to make a left turn into the parking lot. The Ford Expedition, (Vehicle #1) was driven by a 34 year old belted male who was examined at the scene and refused further medical attention. He stated he was looking at an exterior site, to the right of his vehicle, and did not realize the vehicle in front of him was stopped. The Critical Precrash Event coded to Vehicle #1 was coded as Other Motor Vehicle in Lane, Other vehicle stopped. The Critical Reason for the Critical Precrash Event was coded as Driver Related Factor, Recognition Error, External Distraction. An associated factor coded to this driver was the use of prescription medications. He was taking two medications: (a) a depression medication with the possible side effects of drowsiness and (b) a pain medication also with the possible side effects of drowsiness. The Dodge Ram (Vehicle #2) was driven by a 38 year old belted female with a belted 16 year old female passenger in the right front seat. The driver stated she was stopped in the roadway waiting for several vehicles to pass before proceeding to make a left turn into a parking lot. She stated she did not see Vehicle #2 approaching and had no time to react. No Critical Precrash Event was coded to this vehicle as the driver was not thought to have contributed to the crash. Both Vehicles were towed from the scene. Police did not consider illegal drugs or alcohol to be involved and ordered no tests for either driver.
The crash occurred in the right lane of a three-lane roadway near a T-intersection controlled by a traffic control signal. Conditions were daylight and clear in the afternoon on a weekday. The posted speed limit was 80 kmph (50 mph). V1 was a 1990 Chevy C25 Cheyenne pickup truck traveling eastbound in the right lane approaching a T-intersection with a traffic control signal. V2, a 2005 Cadillac STS sedan, was traveling eastbound in the right lane directly in front of V1 and decelerating in traffic. V3, a 1996 Ford Explorer SUV, was traveling eastbound in the right lane directly 3-4 car lengths in front of V2. The driver of V1 was traveling between 21-30 MPH when he looked down for a second then looked back up and struck the back of V2. The driver of V1 braked and swerved right prior to the first impact. The front of V2 was pushed into the rear of V3. All three vehicles came to final rest facing eastbound in the right lane. A 39-year old male drove V1 and was not injured. He stated that he was traveling eastbound in the right lane at about 21-30 MPH when he looked down at his lap for a second. When he looked up, he saw that V2 was decelerating abruptly and he slammed on his brakes and swerved right in response but could not avoid contacting V2. He stated that there was stop and go traffic but thought he had enough room in between both vehicles. V1 was towed due to damage. The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was when V2 was decelerating while in the same lane in front of V1. The Critical Reason for the Critical Precrash Event was a recognition error - an internal distraction when the driver looked down while driving. The driver had about 100 lbs. of cargo in the bed of his pickup but there was no cargo shift or cargo spillage. The driver was familiar with the area and the surrounding traffic. The driver was keeping up with traffic but did not think he was traveling too closely. A 57-year old male drove V2 and was transported due to moderate injuries. He stated that he was decelerating in traffic when he was struck in the back by V1. The driver of V2 did not take any avoidance actions. V2 was towed due to damage. The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was the other vehicle in his lane, traveling in the same direction but at a higher speed. The Critical Reason for the Critical Precrash Event was not coded to this vehicle. The driver of V2 had three pre-existing medical conditions including sleep apnea, but he does not receive any treatment for his sleep apnea. The driver reported being drowsy prior to the crash. A 23-year old male drove V3 and was not injured. He stated that he was stopped in traffic when he saw V1 in his rearview mirror driving very fast towards the vehicle in back of him. The driver of V3 turned his wheel to the right but was struck in the back by V2. V3 was driven away from the scene. No Critical Precrash Event and no Critical Reason were coded to V3 because it was not involved in the first harmful event. The driver of V3 was talking with his passenger at the time of the crash but had watched the crash unfold in his rear view mirror. It was not thought that the driver of V3 contributed to the crash.
This crash occurred in the evening hours on the bituminous northbound lanes of a divided urban highway. The two northbound were dry, level, curved to the right, and featured shoulders on both sides as well as a posted speed limit of 80kmph (50mph). There were no adverse atmospheric conditions and the roadway was dark but lighted with normal traffic flow. V1, a 2000 Mazda 626, was traveling north in lane one when its left side was contacted by V2, an unknown type van, as it re-entered the roadway from the shoulder. The initial impact caused V1 to lose control of her vehicle and began to swerve off the road to the left. She drove a few feet up the embankment on the side of the road digging her left side tires into the grass/dirt causing them to blow out and damage her undercarriage. V1 abruptly steered right descended down the hill and began to rollover. V1 re-entered the roadway still turning clockwise and rolled over two quarter turns onto its top coming to final rest facing south. V2 continued traveling and didn't stop. V1 was driven a 25-year old female in good health on her way home. She stated she didn't expect a vehicle (V2) to be traveling on the shoulder. When she finally saw V2 encroaching from the left shoulder into her lane. Both driver and passenger were transported to the hospital with moderate injuries and V1 was towed due to damages. The Critical Pre-Crash Event for V1 was coded other motor vehicle encroachment from adjacent lane (same direction) - over left lane line. The only associated factor coded to this driver was fatigue; she said that she'd worked 12hrs that day (but claimed she wasn't tired). V1 was not thought to have contributed to this crash. V2 left the scene without stopped therefore no driver interview or vehicle inspection could be obtained. The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was coded as this vehicle traveling, over the lane line on the right side of the travel lane. The Critical Reason for the Critical Precrash Event was coded as an unknown decision error. There are no known associated factors coded to this vehicle, as the driver wasn't interviewed.
The crash occurred in the southwestbound lanes of a three-lane roadway with a T-intersection. Conditions were dark with lights, dry with cloudy skies in the evening on a weekday. The southwestbound lanes had a posted speed of 80 kmph (50 mph), the southbound lane had a speed limit of 56 kmph (35 mph). V1 was a 1998 Ford Escort sedan traveling southbound in the right lane approaching a T-intersection with a stop sign. V2, a 1993 Subaru Legacy sedan, was traveling southwestbound in the right lane approaching the T-intersection. V1 made a left turn at the stop sign and the front of V2 struck the left side of V1 in the southwestbound lane. Both vehicles came to final rest facing westbound. V1 was driven by a 19-year-old male who was not injured. He stated that he was lost and trying to find a church that was close by. He approached the stop sign and did not see V2 until it was too late. He turned left directly into V2 traveling between 21-30 MPH. V1 was towed due to damage. The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was when this vehicle was turning left at the intersection. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was inadequate surveillance; he looked but did not see. Associated factors coded to this driver was the driver being fatigued due to a busy work and exercise schedule, the driver not familiar with the area (he was lost), and traveling too fast (he was in a hurry). The driver has myopic (near-sighted) vision but does not need to wear glasses to drive, this was not thought to have contributed to the crash. V2 was driven by a 63-year-old female who was transported to a local hospital with minor injuries. The driver refused to be interviewed at the hospital and refused us when we visited her home. V2 remained at the scene. The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was when V1 encroached from the crossing street, turning into the opposite direction. No Critical Reason was coded to the driver of V2.
The two-vehicle crash occurred in the middle of a T-intersection. The roadways for both vehicles were asphalt, dry, and level. The posted speed limit was 56 kmph (35 mph) for both directions. Vehicle one (V1) had a stop sign controlling its direction; there was no control device for Vehicle two (V2). The crash occurred in the early afternoon on a weekday. The traffic flow was light and the weather was clear. Vehicle one, a 2005 Ford Expedition, was traveling westbound and stopped at the corner, adhering to the passive stop sign located on both sides of the corner. She said she looked both ways before making her intended right turn; however, her view was obstructed by several vehicles parked on the southeast corner. She accelerated into the intersection and the front of her vehicle contacted the right front of V2, a 1992 Pontiac Bonneville. The driver of V1, a 21-year old female, was aware of the posted stop sign, and said that she felt comfortable with the rented vehicle. She gave no other explanation for the crash besides her inability to see the traffic to her left. After the initial impact, V1 continued traveling north for a few feet and spun around 45 degrees clockwise before striking a narrow pole on the northeast corner of the intersection, where it came to final rest. The driver of V2, a 26-year old female, stated that she had the right of way and didn't see V1 until the last second and she then applied her brakes. She was issued a citation for driving without proof of insurance. Although V2 was towed, police logged the crash as a non-reportable accident. The Critical Pre-Crash Event for V1 was when it began to turn right at the intersection. The Critical Reason was coded as inadequate surveillance (looked but did not see). Associated factors coded to this driver include a sightline restriction caused by the parked vehicles on the side of the roadway and unfamiliarity with both her vehicle and the roadway. The Critical Pre-Crash Event for V1 was coded as other vehicle encroachment from crossing street, turning into same direction. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. No associated factors were coded to this driver.
This case focuses on a restrained 43 year old female driver in a 2010 Honda Accord (V1). V1 was equipped with dual frontal airbags, dual side curtains and dual first row side airbags. The driver's steering mounted airbag and both side curtains deployed during the crash. V2, a 2011 Hyundai Genesis was also involved in the crash. The crash occurred during the nighttime hours on a wet asphalt, two-way, two-lane roadway. There were no street lights near the roadway and it was dark. The posted speed limit for both travel lanes was 64 kph (40 mph). V1 was traveling south in the southbound lane of the roadway. V2 was traveling north in the northbound lane while negotiating a right curve. V2 drifted over the left lane line and then its left tires departed the roadway onto the left roadside. The driver of V2 noticed that his vehicle was partially off the roadway. He steered right and braked in an attempt to slow and maneuver his vehicle back onto the road. The driver of V1 noticed V2 in its lane and applied her brakes. The front of V2 contacted the front of V1 while in the southbound lane. V1 rotated counterclockwise onto the adjacent roadside. V1 traveled a short distance down an embankment where it contacted a tree with its right rear. V1 came to rest on the roadside facing east. V2 rotated counterclockwise after impact and traveled across the roadway onto the roadside that was adjacent to the northbound lane. V2 faced north at final rest. Both vehicles were towed from the crash scene due to disabling damage. The restrained driver of V1 was transported to a local hospital by ground ambulance. She was later transferred to a level one trauma center due to serious injuries sustained in the crash.
Vehicle one (V1 - case vehicle), a 2002 Subaru Forester, 4-door utility vehicle was traveling west in the westbound lane of a two-lane, two-way roadway and was negotiating a right curve. Vehicle two (V2), a 2002 Buick Rendezvous, 4-door utility vehicle was traveling east in the eastbound lane of the same roadway and was negotiating a left curve. It was daylight, snowing, and the bituminous road was icy. The driver of V1 lost control on the icy road and began to rotate counterclockwise. V1 rotated approximately 90 degrees, crossed the centerline and entered the eastbound lane. The driver of V2 could not avoid V1 and the front of V2 struck the right side of V1 in a T-type configuration. Both vehicles were towed due to disabling vehicle damage. The 36-year-old male driver of V1 (case occupant) was using the available three-point seat belt but no airbags deployed in the driver's seating position. He was transported via ground ambulance to a regional level-one trauma center.
This case involves an oblique, side-impact to the corner of the left fender of a passenger car and the front of another passenger car. The case occupant is the restrained driver of the passenger car sustaining the oblique-angle, side-impact. The case vehicle (V1), a 2006 four-door, Ford Focus, was northbound on dry, level, two-lane, concrete road approaching a four-leg intersection. The roadway narrows on the approach to the intersection as the legal parking lanes end. Vehicle two (V2), a 2003 four-door Hyundai XG350, was in the outside eastbound lane of the intersecting five-lane road approaching the same intersection. It was daylight and clear. As the case vehicle was making a left-turn through the intersection, it entered the path of V2. The front of V2 struck the left fender of the case vehicle, at the front corner. The impact resulted in the case vehicle rotating clockwise until it came to rest on the east side of the intersection, near the raised median for east-west traffic, facing northeast. V2 yawed counterclockwise, crossed into the inside eastbound lane, exited the intersection, rode over a raised median and came to rest in the westbound left-turn lane facing northeast. The sole occupant of the case vehicle was the restrained 46-year-old male driver. He had the benefit of a deployed frontal-impact air bag. The driver sustained serious injuries and was transported to a level-one trauma center and enrolled as a case occupant.
This case focuses on a restrained 70 year old female right front passenger in a 2012 Toyota Camry (V1). There was also a restrained 72 year old male driver in V1. V1 was equipped with dual frontal airbags. It was also equipped dual side curtains, dual first and second row side airbags, and dual frontal knee bolster airbags. All left side airbags deployed during the crash. V2, a 2001 Chevrolet Malibu was also involved in the crash. The crash occurred during the daylight hours at the intersection of a two-way, two-lane, and dry asphalt roadway and a four-lane, two-way, dry, asphalt roadway. The two-lane roadway (east and westbound lanes) was controlled by stop signs and the four-lane roadway (north and southbound lanes) was not controlled by signs or signals. The posted speed limit for two-lane roadway was 56 kph (35 mph) and the four-lane roadway posted speed limit was 89 kph (55mph). V1 was traveling east in the eastbound lane attempting to crossover the intersection onto the east leg of the intersection. V2 was traveling south in the southbound lane attempting to crossover the intersection onto the south leg of the intersection. While both vehicles were in the intersection, the front of V2 contacted the left side of V1. After impact V1 continued southeast across the intersection while rotating counterclockwise. It then departed the roadway onto the southeast corner of the intersection and came to rest in the parking lot of a gas station. V1 faced southeast at final rest. V2 rotated counterclockwise after impact and continued across the intersection. V2 came to rest facing northeast while partially in its original travel lane and partially off the roadway. Both vehicles were towed from the crash scene due to disabling damage. The right front passenger in V1 was taken to a local hospital by ambulance; however, she was later transported to a level one trauma center where she received additional treatment for serious injury. The driver of V1 was transported to a local hospital where he was hospitalized and treated for unknown injuries.
This near-side impact crash case involves a 31 year old female driver, wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt with deployed frontal, side impact and side curtain air bags who sustained moderate injuries. This crash occurred during evening hours in a four legged intersection with stop signs present for north/southbound traffic. These intersecting streets are both two lane, two way asphalt roadways with no curbs. In the area where the crash occurred, there is an uphill grade for southbound vehicles approaching the intersection, then the travel lane levels off. The intersecting roadway is comprised of one eastbound lane, one westbound lane and left turn only lanes present at the intersection. The case vehicle one (V1), a 2013 Subaru Forester compact utility vehicle, was traveling south in the southbound lane and Vehicle 2 (V2), a 2012 Honda CR-V compact utility vehicle, was traveling west on the intersecting street. Both vehicles entered the intersection and the front of V2 impacted the left side of V1, resulting in the actuation of the driver's seat belt retractor pretensioner and the deployment of V1's frontal, left side impact and both side curtain air bags. V1 rotated clockwise as V2 rotated counterclockwise. The vehicles traveled in a southwesterly direction. V1 departed the southwest corner of the intersection and came to final rest facing southeast. V2 came to final rest near the same corner, facing southwest. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. The case occupant is the 31 year old female driver of V1 who was restrained with the available manual lap/shoulder belt. This case occupant's steering column mounted frontal, left seat back mounted and left and right roof side rail mounted curtain air bags all deployed during the crash. This case occupant sustained moderate injuries and was transported to a local hospital where she was hospitalized overnight. She was transferred to the trauma center the following day and was hospitalized for an additional two days. There were no other occupants in the vehicle. The driver and sole occupant of V2 was reported to have sustained visible injuries, but her treatment status is unknown.
Vehicle one (V1-case vehicle), a 2007 Mercedes-Benz ML-350, 4-door SUV was traveling east in the eastbound lane of a two-lane, two-way residential street. Vehicle two (V2), a 2002 Mitsubishi Montero, 4-door SUV was traveling west in the westbound lane of the same street. It was daylight, and the bituminous road surface was dry except for an icy patch in the westbound lane of travel. There were no adverse weather conditions at the time of the crash. As V2 was exiting a left curve in the westbound roadway, it lost control on an icy patch and crossed over into the eastbound lane, impacting the front of V1 with its front right . After initial impact, V1 rotated clockwise and slightly rearward before traveling to its final resting position, partially off the west road-edge facing southeast. V2 also rotated clockwise and traveled to its final resting position, off the roadway in a driveway facing northwest. Both vehicles were towed from the scene due to disabling vehicle damage. There were two occupants in V1, a 33 year-old female driver and a 21 month-old male (case occupant). The driver of V1 was properly restrained by the available lap and shoulder belt (pretensioner fired) and the deployed steering wheel mounted air bag. Our case occupant was seated in the 2nd row, right seating position in a Britax Marathon forward facing child safety seat with internal 5-point harness. The child safety seat was properly restrained by the LATCH and Tether system. Our case occupant was transported from the scene to a local Pediatric trauma center where he was diagnosed with a left tibia fracture.
The focus of this case a 17-year old female who was the restrained driver (case occupant) of a 2008 Chevrolet Cobalt 2-door coupe involved in a near-side impact with a utility pole. The single vehicle collision occurred during the early evening hours on a four-lane, two-way roadway (two northbound lanes, two southbound lanes). It was daylight, but the weather was cloudy. The roadway was dry and free of defects. The posted speed limit for this roadway is 80 km/h (50 mph). Vehicle one (V1-case vehicle) was traveling southbound in the left lane when an unknown vehicle pulled out of a driveway, and proceeded to travel in the lane in front of V1 at a slower speed. The driver of V1 avoided contacting the unknown vehicle by steering to the left, crossing into the northbound travel lane. She then steered sharply to the right to reenter the southbound lane, causing the vehicle to yaw to the left, crossing both southbound lanes and departing the west road edge before impacting a utility pole with its left side (pole has been replaced in scene images). V1 rotated slightly counter clockwise around the pole before coming to final rest facing west. V1 left approximately 18 meters of yaw mark on the southbound travel lanes from its left front and left rear tires. V1 was towed from the scene due to disabling damage. The 17-year old female driver (case occupant) of V1 was using her available lap and shoulder belt (pretensioner fired) and the side curtain air bag did deploy in the crash. The driver was taken from the scene to a to a local hospital where she stayed for 6 hours in the ER before being transferred to a trauma center where she was admitted for three days due to her injuries. There was also a 13-year old female (case occupant's sister) seated in the right front of V1. She was wearing her available lap and shoulder belt (pretensioner fired) and no air bags deployed for her seating position. She was transported from the scene to a local hospital and released the same day. Of note, Event Data Recorder data collected from the case vehicle shows that the speed of travel immediately preceding the crash was much higher than the posted speed limit. EDR also confirms that both the case occupant and the right front passenger were utilizing their belt restraints.
